# Leaving windows for good
## 2016-02-20

Change is hard isn't it? Especially when throughout your education you have
been solely tested in many cases purely on your ability to use proprietary,
vendor-based software. It wasn't even until later in my education where
computing != windows automatically. I was never pushed by anyone but myself to
learn about computing or programming principles, especially recently, where I
find for myself that self-study at my own pace is much more enjoyable then
being whisked through some course or another that is neither interesting nor
applicable to what I want to do for a living.


Maybe I am an outlier, but I've recently felt more and more failed by my
education in computing and IT. Looking back though, there really weren't too
many other choices I could have taken. At GCSE (for people not in the UK, this
is the 11-16 age bracket), the only choice was a puesdo-module where you had a
module in some of the following: Microsoft Office; an interactive powerpoint
of some kind for children (seriously); a video editing project with such
ancient software as windows movie maker; a web-animation using gifs with (if I
recall correctly), such ancient software as macromedia fireworks and a couple
of others which were so boring I can't remember them.


Well, what about A-levels (16-18 age bracket) or equivalent? Only one college
in my area at any *reasonable* travel distance did a Computing A-level and
another that offered a BTEC (very similar to what I already did for my GCSE
qualification). This was somewhat better, but I found the exams for this
course tough, because it felt like in many cases it wasn't testing your
computing or programming knowledge, but rather how well you could answer the
question. There was a measly 30% mark in the second year (so 15% of the course
overall) in some coursework, the only practical piece of the course you were
graded on. However, as my teachers were either incompetent or unwilling to
leave the windows bubble, nearly everyone (except one guy who wrote his
project in flash for some unknowable reason) did their project in visual
basic without really learning anything except how to take a framework and
write some code in a massively limiting IDE.


At university level, it slowly dawns on you 'Computer Science' means many
different things to many different people. I didn't enjoy my course at my
university and well, I was unhappy for other reasons so I decided to leave
that course. It was around the start of this time that I really started to try
getting into linux and the unix world more properly, and realising that I was
suddenly much happier in my own environment, where everything worked for me
and not the other way around.


Now I am officially out of education, and somehow much happier so, but more
importantly on a more personal level I am no longer being held hostage by
'windows' nor the paradigms it forces you to use. Nowadays, the UK government
has been pushing GCSE Computing pretty heavily and getting Raspberry Pi's into
more children's hands sooner rather than later, along with the line of
"Children could learn programming instead of a foreign language." and while I
don't necessarily disagree with any of those initiatives, part of me hopes
that this really does mean teaching more children more basic computing
principles without the all-encompassing hand of Microsoft shoving windows down
their throats like it was for me. Whether this is will turn out to be reality
or not remains to be seen.

As for me, I haven't logged into a windows machine in over three months, a
groundbreaking record considering I used to play games heavily day in day out.
My Nvidia GTX 970 sits idle most days while I tinker n' code, but this journey
hasn't been easy in any sense and I can't say I recommend it for every person
who works in computing as the time cost has been massive, although, you only
have to do it once and it's with you for life. I'm hoping I'll remember this
post fifty years and still edit this markdown file with trusty vim, and more
importantly, for someone, somewhere to be reading it.
